docs/source/about/environment.rst, before:

***********
Environment
***********

.. contents:: Contents:
   :depth: 4


.. |icon_editing_enable| image:: /source/_static/environment/icon_editing_enable.svg
.. |icon_editing_save| image:: /source/_static/environment/icon_editing_save.svg
.. |icon_select| image:: /source/_static/environment/icon_select.svg
.. |icon_snapping_advanced| image:: /source/_static/environment/icon_snapping_advanced.svg
.. |icon_snapping_enable| image:: /source/_static/environment/icon_snapping_enable.svg
.. |icon_snapping_intersection| image:: /source/_static/environment/icon_snapping_intersection.svg
.. |icon_snapping_vertex| image:: /source/_static/environment/icon_snapping_vertex.svg
.. |icon_vertex_enable_editing| image:: /source/_static/environment/icon_vertex_enable_editing.svg

Virtual Machine (VM) Access
===========================

All work is done on a personalized VM on the StatCan cloud environment. Your VM is named according to the format:
``egp-<username>``. See the following instructions for accessing your VM:
:download:`Download PDF </source/_static/environment/vm_access.pdf>`

Software
========

All software dependencies are pre-installed. All you need is the following:

Data Editing
------------

- `QGIS <https://www.qgis.org/en/site/forusers/download.html>`_: Open source GIS application.

Repository Management and Script Usage
--------------------------------------

- `Git <https://git-scm.com/downloads>`_: Version control system for tracking code changes and collaborative
  development.
- `conda <https://docs.anaconda.com/anaconda/install/>`_: Virtual environment and package manager.

.. admonition:: conda setup

    ``conda`` installation may require the following additions to the ``Path`` environment variable in order for
    ``conda`` to be recognized as a valid command:

    - C:\\ProgramData\\Anaconda3
    - C:\\ProgramData\\Anaconda3\\Library\\bin
    - C:\\ProgramData\\Anaconda3\\Scripts

Repository
==========

The repository is the root directory containing all files and code for a project. This project's repository is named
``egp-crn`` and is already installed on your VM at ``C:/egp-crn``.

``Git`` is used for repository management. ``Git`` allows you to fetch content from a remote repository (GitHub in this
case) and integrate the differences into your local repository.

Installation
------------

1. Change directory to the desired installation location::

    cd /d C:/

2. Install the repository::

    git clone https://github.com/StatCan/egp-crn.git

Updates
-------

1. Change directory to the repository root::

    cd /d C:/egp-crn

2. Fetch and integrate updates::

    git pull

Virtual Environment
===================

All scripts within the ``egp-crn`` repository are intended to be executed within a ``conda`` virtual environment. The
``conda`` environment is defined within an ``environment.yml`` file within the ``egp-crn`` repository and is already
installed on your VM.

``conda`` is an environment and package manager and is used by the ``egp-crn`` repository to provide an isolated
processing environment and effective dependency management. The ``conda`` environment must be activated before
executing any scripts in order to make use of the contained dependencies.

Installation
------------

Install the ``conda`` environment via::

    conda env create -f C:/egp-crn/environment.yml

Activation
----------

Activate the ``conda`` environment via::

    conda activate egp-crn

Updates
-------

Update the ``conda`` environment via (only required if dependencies change)::

    conda env update -f C:/egp-crn/environment.yml --prune

Scripts
=======

All scripts within the ``egp-crn`` repository are implemented as CLI tools and can be called from any shell. The
specific parameters and details of each CLI tool can be viewed by passing the keyword ``--help``.

Script usage:

1. Activate the ``conda`` environment::

    conda activate egp-crn

2. Change directory to the script location::

    cd /d C:/egp-crn/src/topology

3. Execute the script CLI:

  a. Regular execution example::

      python validate_topology.py bc

  b. Execution to view parameter details::

      python validate_topology.py --help

.. figure:: /source/_static/environment/script_usage.gif
    :alt: Script CLI execution demo.

    Figure: Script CLI execution demo.

QGIS
====

Basic Editing Actions
---------------------

Enable / Disable Editing
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. |icon_editing_enable| Enable editing.

2. |icon_select| Select arc(s) and perform edits.

3. |icon_editing_save| Save edits.

4. |icon_editing_enable| Disable editing.

Enable Snapping
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. |icon_snapping_enable| Enable snapping.

2. |icon_snapping_advanced| Open snapping options → Advanced Configuration.

3. Check box to enable snapping for specific layers.

4. |icon_snapping_vertex| Enable vertex snapping for specific layers: Type → Vertex.

5. |icon_snapping_intersection| Enable Snapping on Intersection.

Add / Move / Delete Vertex
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. |icon_vertex_enable_editing| With editing enabled, open vertex editor.

2. Right-click arc to display vertices in vertex editor.

3. Edit vertices:

  a. Add: Hover over arc and click plus (+) icon, click again at desired location to place vertex.

  b. Move: Click a vertex and click again at desired location to place vertex.

  c. Delete: Select vertex (clicking and drag cursor or select from vertex editor) and press <Delete> key.

QGIS Editing Demo
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. raw:: html

    <video controls src="../../_static/environment/qgis_basic_editing_actions.mp4" type="video/mp4" width=100%></video>

Updating Layer Sources
----------------------

QGIS project files (``.qgz``) are part of the repository and, therefore, modifications will be included with any
:code:`git pull` that you perform.

:Problem: Your data sources will be overwritten by those being used when the modifications were made.
:Solution: For each layer, right-click → Change Data Source...

.. figure:: /source/_static/environment/qgis_updating_layer_sources.png
    :alt: QGIS - Updating layer sources.

    Figure: QGIS - Updating layer sources.

Keyboard Shortcuts (Hotkeys)
----------------------------

Hotkeys are recommended to make editing activities less tedious and can be assigned to individual QGIS actions via:
Settings → Keyboard Shortcuts... → Search / select action → Change → Press desired keyboard key.

.. figure:: /source/_static/environment/qgis_keyboard_shortcuts.png
    :alt: QGIS - Assigning hotkeys.

    Figure: QGIS - Assigning hotkeys.

Commit message:

[1] added sphinx-build instructions and rebuilt docs

docs/source/about/environment.rst, after:

***********
Environment
***********

.. contents:: Contents:
   :depth: 4


.. |icon_editing_enable| image:: /source/_static/environment/icon_editing_enable.svg
.. |icon_editing_save| image:: /source/_static/environment/icon_editing_save.svg
.. |icon_select| image:: /source/_static/environment/icon_select.svg
.. |icon_snapping_advanced| image:: /source/_static/environment/icon_snapping_advanced.svg
.. |icon_snapping_enable| image:: /source/_static/environment/icon_snapping_enable.svg
.. |icon_snapping_intersection| image:: /source/_static/environment/icon_snapping_intersection.svg
.. |icon_snapping_vertex| image:: /source/_static/environment/icon_snapping_vertex.svg
.. |icon_vertex_enable_editing| image:: /source/_static/environment/icon_vertex_enable_editing.svg

Virtual Machine (VM) Access
===========================

All work is done on a personalized VM on the StatCan cloud environment. Your VM is named according to the format:
``egp-<username>``. See the following instructions for accessing your VM:
:download:`Download PDF </source/_static/environment/vm_access.pdf>`

Software
========

All software dependencies are pre-installed. All you need is the following:

Data Editing
------------

- `QGIS <https://www.qgis.org/en/site/forusers/download.html>`_: Open source GIS application.

Repository Management and Script Usage
--------------------------------------

- `Git <https://git-scm.com/downloads>`_: Version control system for tracking code changes and collaborative
  development.
- `conda <https://docs.anaconda.com/anaconda/install/>`_: Virtual environment and package manager.

.. admonition:: conda setup

    ``conda`` installation may require the following additions to the ``Path`` environment variable in order for
    ``conda`` to be recognized as a valid command:

    - C:\\ProgramData\\Anaconda3
    - C:\\ProgramData\\Anaconda3\\Library\\bin
    - C:\\ProgramData\\Anaconda3\\Scripts

Repository
==========

The repository is the root directory containing all files and code for a project. This project's repository is named
``egp-crn`` and is already installed on your VM at ``C:/egp-crn``.

``Git`` is used for repository management. ``Git`` allows you to fetch content from a remote repository (GitHub in this
case) and integrate the differences into your local repository.

Installation
------------

1. Change directory to the desired installation location::

    cd /d C:/

2. Install the repository::

    git clone https://github.com/StatCan/egp-crn.git

Updates
-------

1. Change directory to the repository root::

    cd /d C:/egp-crn

2. Fetch and integrate updates::

    git pull

Virtual Environment
===================

All scripts within the ``egp-crn`` repository are intended to be executed within a ``conda`` virtual environment. The
``conda`` environment is defined within an ``environment.yml`` file within the ``egp-crn`` repository and is already
installed on your VM.

``conda`` is an environment and package manager and is used by the ``egp-crn`` repository to provide an isolated
processing environment and effective dependency management. The ``conda`` environment must be activated before
executing any scripts in order to make use of the contained dependencies.

Installation
------------

Install the ``conda`` environment via::

    conda env create -f C:/egp-crn/environment.yml

Activation
----------

Activate the ``conda`` environment via::

    conda activate egp-crn

Updates
-------

Update the ``conda`` environment via (only required if dependencies change)::

    conda env update -f C:/egp-crn/environment.yml --prune

Scripts
=======

All scripts within the ``egp-crn`` repository are implemented as CLI tools and can be called from any shell. The
specific parameters and details of each CLI tool can be viewed by passing the keyword ``--help``.

Script usage:

1. Activate the ``conda`` environment::

    conda activate egp-crn

2. Change directory to the script location::

    cd /d C:/egp-crn/src/topology

3. Execute the script CLI:

  a. Regular execution example::

      python validate_topology.py bc

  b. Execution to view parameter details::

      python validate_topology.py --help

.. figure:: /source/_static/environment/script_usage.gif
    :alt: Script CLI execution demo.

    Figure: Script CLI execution demo.

Documentation
=============

Documentation is written in reStructuredText (RST), a markup language developed for technical documentation
(specifically Python projects), and rendered as HTML via ``sphinx``. Updates to documentation requires a rebuild with
the ``sphinx-build`` command-line tool using the following parameters::

    sphinx-build -b html docs docs/_build

.. admonition:: Note

    Various warnings and errors may be logged during the documentation build. These are not always an indication of
    true errors and can largely be ignored so long as the resulting documentation actually gets built correctly.

QGIS
====

Basic Editing Actions
---------------------

Enable / Disable Editing
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. |icon_editing_enable| Enable editing.

2. |icon_select| Select arc(s) and perform edits.

3. |icon_editing_save| Save edits.

4. |icon_editing_enable| Disable editing.

Enable Snapping
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. |icon_snapping_enable| Enable snapping.

2. |icon_snapping_advanced| Open snapping options → Advanced Configuration.

3. Check box to enable snapping for specific layers.

4. |icon_snapping_vertex| Enable vertex snapping for specific layers: Type → Vertex.

5. |icon_snapping_intersection| Enable Snapping on Intersection.

Add / Move / Delete Vertex
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. |icon_vertex_enable_editing| With editing enabled, open vertex editor.

2. Right-click arc to display vertices in vertex editor.

3. Edit vertices:

  a. Add: Hover over arc and click plus (+) icon, click again at desired location to place vertex.

  b. Move: Click a vertex and click again at desired location to place vertex.

  c. Delete: Select vertex (clicking and drag cursor or select from vertex editor) and press <Delete> key.

QGIS Editing Demo
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. raw:: html

    <video controls src="../../_static/environment/qgis_basic_editing_actions.mp4" type="video/mp4" width=100%></video>

Updating Layer Sources
----------------------

QGIS project files (``.qgz``) are part of the repository and, therefore, modifications will be included with any
:code:`git pull` that you perform.

:Problem: Your data sources will be overwritten by those being used when the modifications were made.
:Solution: For each layer, right-click → Change Data Source...

.. figure:: /source/_static/environment/qgis_updating_layer_sources.png
    :alt: QGIS - Updating layer sources.

    Figure: QGIS - Updating layer sources.

Keyboard Shortcuts (Hotkeys)
----------------------------

Hotkeys are recommended to make editing activities less tedious and can be assigned to individual QGIS actions via:
Settings → Keyboard Shortcuts... → Search / select action → Change → Press desired keyboard key.

.. figure:: /source/_static/environment/qgis_keyboard_shortcuts.png
    :alt: QGIS - Assigning hotkeys.

    Figure: QGIS - Assigning hotkeys.
