docs/source/road_network_collapse/meshblock_conflation.rst, before:

********************
Meshblock Conflation
********************

.. contents:: Contents:
   :depth: 4

Overview
========

The NGD network needs to be linkable to the new network. This includes individual arcs and BB (meshblock) units.

The EGP and NGD network differences are not limited to the quantity of arcs, but also the shape and alignment of those
arcs. This is why the networks cannot be simply linked arc-to-arc, but require more detailed conflation to reduce
alignment differences. A threshold of 80% is currently used to determine acceptable network alignment and classify
individual meshblock polygons (BBs) as ``conflated`` or ``unconflated``.

The required actions to resolve ``unconflated`` BBs should follow those outlined in the various validations in
:ref:`meshblock_creation`.

Resources
---------

:CLI Tool: ``egp/src/conflation/conflate_meshblock.py``
:Output: - Basic metrics output to console.
         - New BB layer: ``egp/data/interim/egp_data.gpkg|layer=meshblock_<source>``
         - Current (NGD) BB layer: ``egp/data/interim/egp_data.gpkg|layer=meshblock_ngd_<source>``
:Editing Environment: ``egp/data/interim/egp_editing_meshblock_conflation.qgz``

Editing Process
---------------

.. figure:: /source/_static/meshblock_conflation/editing_process_meshblock_conflation.png
    :alt: Editing process overview.

    Figure 1: Editing process overview.

Cardinalities
-------------

.. admonition:: Definition

    Cardinalities: In a database context, cardinalities refer to the numerical relationships between records of two or
    more datasets.

.. figure:: /source/_static/meshblock_conflation/cardinalities_overview.png
    :alt: Cardinalities overview.

    Figure 2: Cardinalities overview. Direction: EGP (blue) - to - NGD (pink).

**Cardinalities Explained:**

``one-to-one``:
    :Explanation: Networks align.
    :Action: None.
``many-to-one``:
    :Explanation: EGP is more detailed.
    :Action: None.
``one-to-many``:
    :Explanation: NGD is more detailed.
    :Action: Create new BOs and / or copy missing NGD roads.
``many-to-many``:
    :Explanation: Networks conflict.
    :Action: Create new BOs.

QGIS Project
------------

Explanation of Layers
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. figure:: /source/_static/meshblock_conflation/qgis_project_layers.png
    :alt: QGIS table of contents.

    Figure 3: QGIS table of contents.

**Layers:**

:``nrn_bo``: Primary editing layer representing NRN roads and ferries, NGD BOs, and added NGD roads.
:``ngd_road``: NGD roads (non-BOs) to be used for identifying roads which are missing from the NRN and are required for
               conflation.
:``meshblock_ngd``: Current NGD BB layer, classified by conflation validity status and labelled with a conflation
                    percentage.
:``meshblock``: New BB layer generated from ``nrn_bo``.
:``Esri Satellite``: Reference layer for recent imagery context.

Example Output
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. figure:: /source/_static/meshblock_conflation/qgis_example_output.png
    :alt: QGIS example output.

    Figure 4: QGIS example output.

Conflation Scenarios
====================

Scenario: Missing NGD Roads
---------------------------

.. include:: /source/_static/meshblock_conflation/scenario_missing_ngd_roads.rst

Scenario: Missing False NGD Road
--------------------------------

.. include:: /source/_static/meshblock_conflation/scenario_missing_false_ngd_road.rst

Scenario: Misaligned Networks (1)
---------------------------------

.. include:: /source/_static/meshblock_conflation/scenario_misaligned_networks_1.rst

Scenario: Misaligned Networks (2)
---------------------------------

.. include:: /source/_static/meshblock_conflation/scenario_misaligned_networks_2.rst

Scenario: Misaligned Networks (3)
---------------------------------

.. include:: /source/_static/meshblock_conflation/scenario_misaligned_networks_3.rst

Scenario: Misaligned Networks - Additional Examples
---------------------------------------------------

.. include:: /source/_static/meshblock_conflation/scenario_misaligned_networks_additional_examples.rst

Scenario: Isolated Blocks
-------------------------

.. include:: /source/_static/meshblock_conflation/scenario_isolated_blocks.rst

Scenario: Correction of NGD Road
--------------------------------

.. include:: /source/_static/meshblock_conflation/scenario_correction_of_ngd_road.rst

Commit message:

[1] added note with instructions for converting ngd roads to bos.

docs/source/road_network_collapse/meshblock_conflation.rst, after:

********************
Meshblock Conflation
********************

.. contents:: Contents:
   :depth: 4

Overview
========

The NGD network needs to be linkable to the new network. This includes individual arcs and BB (meshblock) units.

The EGP and NGD network differences are not limited to the quantity of arcs, but also the shape and alignment of those
arcs. This is why the networks cannot be simply linked arc-to-arc, but require more detailed conflation to reduce
alignment differences. A threshold of 80% is currently used to determine acceptable network alignment and classify
individual meshblock polygons (BBs) as ``conflated`` or ``unconflated``.

The required actions to resolve ``unconflated`` BBs should follow those outlined in the various validations in
:ref:`meshblock_creation`.

Resources
---------

:CLI Tool: ``egp/src/conflation/conflate_meshblock.py``
:Output: - Basic metrics output to console.
         - New BB layer: ``egp/data/interim/egp_data.gpkg|layer=meshblock_<source>``
         - Current (NGD) BB layer: ``egp/data/interim/egp_data.gpkg|layer=meshblock_ngd_<source>``
:Editing Environment: ``egp/data/interim/egp_editing_meshblock_conflation.qgz``

Editing Process
---------------

.. figure:: /source/_static/meshblock_conflation/editing_process_meshblock_conflation.png
    :alt: Editing process overview.

    Figure 1: Editing process overview.

Cardinalities
-------------

.. admonition:: Definition

    Cardinalities: In a database context, cardinalities refer to the numerical relationships between records of two or
    more datasets.

.. figure:: /source/_static/meshblock_conflation/cardinalities_overview.png
    :alt: Cardinalities overview.

    Figure 2: Cardinalities overview. Direction: EGP (blue) - to - NGD (pink).

**Cardinalities Explained:**

``one-to-one``:
    :Explanation: Networks align.
    :Action: None.
``many-to-one``:
    :Explanation: EGP is more detailed.
    :Action: None.
``one-to-many``:
    :Explanation: NGD is more detailed.
    :Action: Create new BOs and / or copy missing NGD roads.
``many-to-many``:
    :Explanation: Networks conflict.
    :Action: Create new BOs.

QGIS Project
------------

Explanation of Layers
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. figure:: /source/_static/meshblock_conflation/qgis_project_layers.png
    :alt: QGIS table of contents.

    Figure 3: QGIS table of contents.

**Layers:**

:``nrn_bo``: Primary editing layer representing NRN roads and ferries, NGD BOs, and added NGD roads.
:``ngd_road``: NGD roads (non-BOs) to be used for identifying roads which are missing from the NRN and are required for
               conflation.
:``meshblock_ngd``: Current NGD BB layer, classified by conflation validity status and labelled with a conflation
                    percentage.
:``meshblock``: New BB layer generated from ``nrn_bo``.
:``Esri Satellite``: Reference layer for recent imagery context.

Example Output
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. figure:: /source/_static/meshblock_conflation/qgis_example_output.png
    :alt: QGIS example output.

    Figure 4: QGIS example output.

Conflation Scenarios
====================

.. admonition:: Converting NGD roads to BOs (applies to most scenarios)

    If an NGD road needs to be converted to a BO, copy and paste the NGD feature(s) into the EGP data and set
    ``bo_new=1``. The script will automatically set ``segment_type=3`` for these features, or you can do it yourself.

Scenario: Missing NGD Roads
---------------------------

.. include:: /source/_static/meshblock_conflation/scenario_missing_ngd_roads.rst

Scenario: Missing False NGD Road
--------------------------------

.. include:: /source/_static/meshblock_conflation/scenario_missing_false_ngd_road.rst

Scenario: Misaligned Networks (1)
---------------------------------

.. include:: /source/_static/meshblock_conflation/scenario_misaligned_networks_1.rst

Scenario: Misaligned Networks (2)
---------------------------------

.. include:: /source/_static/meshblock_conflation/scenario_misaligned_networks_2.rst

Scenario: Misaligned Networks (3)
---------------------------------

.. include:: /source/_static/meshblock_conflation/scenario_misaligned_networks_3.rst

Scenario: Misaligned Networks - Additional Examples
---------------------------------------------------

.. include:: /source/_static/meshblock_conflation/scenario_misaligned_networks_additional_examples.rst

Scenario: Isolated Blocks
-------------------------

.. include:: /source/_static/meshblock_conflation/scenario_isolated_blocks.rst

Scenario: Correction of NGD Road
--------------------------------

.. include:: /source/_static/meshblock_conflation/scenario_correction_of_ngd_road.rst
